It was an ordinary grey autumn day in 1993. You came home from work at Hewlett-Packard, feeling a little tired. You had a small two-room apartment on the outskirts of N town. There was a low-alcohol drink in the refrigerator called "pivo". You took that drink and a bag of crackers then went to your little nook, to your computer made by Dell.
*Click* - the power button was pressed. A couple of minutes of boot loading and... yeah, it feels good. You always get that feeling when you turn on a computer. A few seconds of undisturbed pleasure and you opened
the Mosaic browser. Then you went to your favorite forum, and while drinking pivo, you read some threads. Suddenly you came across a very interesting discussion, which began with the following message:

Hello everybody out there using minix -
I'm doing a (free) operating system (just a hobby, won't be big and professional like gnu) for 386(486) AT clones. This has been brewing since april, and is starting to get ready. I'd like any feedback on things people like/dislike in minix, as my OS resembles it somewhat (same physical layout of the file-system (due to practical reasons) among other things).
I've currently ported bash(1.08) and gcc(1.40), and things seem to work. This implies that I'll get something practical within a few months, and I'd like to know what features most people would want. Any suggestions are welcome, but I won't promise I'll implement them :-)
Linus (torvalds@kruuna.helsinki.fi)
PS. Yes - it's free of any minix code, and it has a multi-threaded fs. It is NOT portable (uses 386 task switching etc), and it probably never will support anything other than AT-harddisks, as that's all I have :-(.
— Linus Torvalds

"Very interesting," you thought to yourself. As you scrolled down, you noticed that bash is not that well ported, and some functions didn't work.
In particular, there were problems with the utilities for word processing: cat and grep.
"Interesting task, and it would be great to help this Linus Torvalds," you said aloud and immediately wrote a message in the thread saying that you're already working on it.
Well, let’s start!

Chapter I

Introduction
In this project you will learn and develop basic Bash utilities for working with C programming language texts. These utilities (cat and grep) are often used in the Linux terminal. As part of the project you’ll learn the organization of the Bash utilities and solidify knowledge of structured programming.

Chapter II

Information

cat History

cat was part of the early versions of Unix, e.g., Version 1, and replaced pr, a PDP-7 and Multics utility for copying a single file to the screen.


cat Usage
Cat is one of the most frequently used commands on Unix-like operating systems. It has three related functions with regard to text files: displaying them, combining copies of them and creating new ones.
cat [OPTION] [FILE]...

cat Options



No.
Options
Description




1
-b (GNU: --number-nonblank)
numbers only non-empty lines


2
-e implies -v (GNU only: -E the same, but without implying -v)
but also display end-of-line characters as $


3
-n (GNU: --number)
number all output lines


4
-s (GNU: --squeeze-blank)
squeeze multiple adjacent blank lines


5
-t implies -v (GNU: -T the same, but without implying -v)
but also display tabs as ^I